 
 
ARYAROOP MAJUMDER 
DATA SCIENTIST 
 
 
 
 
PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY 
 
Seeking for an opportunity to apply my 
analytical and technical skills to solve real-
world business problems. My objective is 
to gain hands-on experience in the field of 
data science while continuously learning 
and improving my skills. I am looking for a 
challenging role in a dynamic organization 
where I can contribute my knowledge and 
creativity to drive innovation and make a 
meaningful impact. 
 
 
TECHNICAL SKILLS 
 
Programming languages : 
Python, Bash  
 Data Visualization  Tools: 
Power BI, Tableau 
Data Management  Tools: 
MySQL 
Operating Systems : 
Linux (Debian Based), Window 10 
 
 
 
CERTIFICATIONS 
 
Crash Course on Python | 
Google Inc | Dec '21 | Python 
Energy Within Environmental 
Constraints| Harvard University 
| Aug '21 
Data, Data Everywhere | Google Inc 
| Jan’ 22 | Data-science domain 
 
 
 
 
POWER SKILLS 
Initiates conversation with 
others.  
Values imagination 
Empathetic towards others.  
Works independently in a 
structured manner. 
 
 
EXTRA CURRICULAR 
ACTIVITIES 
Headed the Graohics designing 
team in LPUs highest tier group. 
AI-ML Team member of GDSC -
LPU. 
PROJECTS 
 
Image Classifier  Model Apr'23 
Domain: Neural Network    | Programming Languages: Python       |             
Constructed a neural network to classify images as cat or non-cat.       
This neural network was created using Logistic Regression without using 
any such famous python modules like sci-kit Learn or TensorFlow. 
Used various mathematical techniques such as sigmoid function and learning rates. 
 
Machine Learning model  on Heart Disease Prediction  Feb'23 
Domain: Machine Learning | Programming Languages: Python   | 
Built a machine learning model using sci-kit learn and TensorFlow to 
predict the chance of a human being have heart disease  from their 
blood test report. 
Hyper-parameter tuning to make the model give more accurate prediction. 
 
Exploratory Data Analysis  on Global Terrorism Dataset   Nov'22 
Domain: Data Analysis | Programming Languages:  Python          | 
Performed Data Analysis to understand the underlying reasons of why 
a country is being attacked more compared to others 
Performed data cleansing and data manipulation on the dataset. 
Found some insights on the hot zones of terrorism . 
 
Discussion Form  (CLI) Apr'21 
Domain: OOPs | Programming Languages:  Java    | 
Debugged a Discussion Form 
Using the concepts of OOPs to call various functions. 
Created UserRoles(), GetRole() to assign the hierarchy of access in the system . 
 
Volume Controlled by Hand Gestures Dec'20 
Domain: Computer Vison | Programming Languages:  Python  | 
Built a module using OpenCV to control a device’s volume using hand 
gestures. 
Used the NumPy and mediapipe to connect the image feed with the volume 
function. 
 
 
 
ACHIEVEMENTS 
 
Amazon Summer ML School  Jun '22 - Jul '22 
Selected among top 500 students pan -India to get one to one learning from India’s topmost 
Data Scientist in Amazon. 
Ranked 2nd all-over university in essay writing competition  Feb '21 - Apr '21 
 
 
EDUCATION 
 
B.Tech. in Computer Science Apr '20 - Present 
Lovely Professional University | Phagwara, IN 
CGPA 7.96 
 
 
 
 
1 77777 66666 
 
 +91 9784807414 
https://www.linkedin.com/in/aryaro
op-majumder-a779691bb/ 
aryaroop04@gmail.
com 
Phagwara, Punjab  
https://github.com/FiNiX-GaMmA 
 